Welcome back.
We've learned a little bit about testing but how about testing our ReACT component or our ReACT app.
Our robo friends app if we take a look at our folder over here I have the robo France P.W. yay.
Because it's now a progressive web app and based on what we've learned we might go to the actions folder
Constance folder.
Maybe there reduces file not folder I guess.
And because these are just simple functions we might know how to test them.
But the one thing we haven't really discussed is how do we test these functions that her React Components.
I mean how do we actually do that.
And there are ways that we can figure out to test this with the methods that we've learned so far.
But there is a great library that simplifies things for us and that is enzyme and this is a library
by Air B and B that is pretty standard and the react community if you want to test your components then
you're most likely going to use enzyme an enzyme is again a tool that allows us to say hey in our tests
just render this car component and enzyme is going to give us a ton of methods for us to test.
Hey did the div get rendered.
Did the image get render did the name and email get rendered so in this video.
Let's install enzyme and have a look at what it offers us.
Now they have great documentation here and you can see that based on our ReACT version they have different
things that we need to install and since we're using react that is higher than 16.
If we take a look at package that Jason
we see that we're using react sixteen point two you might be using a higher version of react but most
likely you're gonna be using a version that is higher than this in that case they give us pretty good
information of what to do and what we need to install.
So we need to install the enzyme library as well as this enzyme adaptor reacts 16.
So just a special adapter that we need for this newer version of React scan to go ahead and copy this
and you see that we're doing dash dash save Dev because it's a death dependency.
All right.
We have enzyme installed with the enzyme adapter.
Now if you go through their documentation we need to do a quick setup for us to be able to actually
use enzyme and again this is because we're using a newer version of react.
And I want you to keep in mind that this isn't actually difficult when you see me have these special
cases of libraries and we need to do some sort of a setup.
Most of the time all these libraries have documentation for you to get started.
I mean their goal is for people to use them as much as possible so they're gonna make it easy for you
to understand and setup with enzyme what we need to do is create something called a setup tests digest
to set this up so in our source folder we can just say new file we'll call it setup tests dot J.S. and
within here we're going to import something called configure from enzyme and again all of this can be
found in their documentation.
So don't get intimidated by this.
I had no idea how to do this until I actually read their documentation just on their introduction page.
I'll show you how to do this.
And then finally we also want to import something called an adapter and if I can spell that's how you
spell adapter from the enzyme
adapter react 16 library that we also installed
and then finally we just need one single line here.
And that is to say configure the adapter to have a new adapter if you really want to know what this
does.
You can go through their code on github but just by looking at the name we would say that is just configuring
our test right.
So that's set up.
What can we do.
How can we actually test our components.
Now with enzyme well enzyme gives us mainly just three things that we can use.
Let me show you what they're.
One is something called shallow.
The other one.
Something called Mount and then the third a render and these are functions that we can use from the
enzyme and library that we just used.
And from these three we're able to do something really really interesting with our components.
You see in an ideal world to do a test we can render this whole thing and make sure that it returns
to what we expected.
Like I said before to make sure that we're returning a div perhaps with these types of class names that
we're also returning another div inside of it with name and email so just like a Dom we need to figure
out if it renders exactly what it needs.
And just by looking at the names it looks like enzyme provides for us a way to render mount and shallow.
This component.
So what did these all mean and I'm going to give you a heads up.
Most likely 90 percent of the time you want to use shallow and shallow is what we're gonna be using
in this course.
There are some cases that you might want to use mount and render but just keep in mind that with enzyme
we're pretty much just using this which makes it very very nice and simple.
The very first thing the one that we're using most what does shallow do.
Well first off let's create a test file here because well we're not going to import enzyme in our actual
component.
So within the components file I'm just going to say new file card dot test dot J.S. And now let's import
enzyme here
as well as importing and our actual component.
So again we're gonna import card from the
card that J is for
and now let's just for fun see what happens if I do shallow
card or the card component and let's just console log this
now how do we actually run this test.
Well if we go to our package that Jason we haven't installed just but remember because we're using create
react up this comes built in in the react scripts it has all this stuff set up for us so we can simply
run NPM test
and we get a bit of an error here with say that React is not defined.
That's because remember we're using J a sexier.
So we need a way to reach ASX and if you remember with any component we always import react from the
react package
all right.
And it says that our test suite must contain at least one test because we're not really testing anything.
But at the bottom here we see that we have a shallow wrapper of length one.
So what does shallow do.
Simply by running this syntax we're saying hey shallow render this card component and shallow rendering
is useful because it just renders the card component if the card component for some reason let's say
had a another component inside of it.
That is the hello component.
Well it's not going to render that as well is just going to shallowly render just this component and
it's useful because it constrains yourself to testing one component at a time one unit as you might
remember a unit test is something that just tests one unit at a time one small piece at a time.
And this ensures that your tests aren't indirectly asserting on a behavior of a child component like
the halo component so that's why I'm a big fan of the shallow rendering an enzyme.
Ideally you just want to test one thing at a time without affecting all the child components and this
keeps it keeps your tests nice and clean.
Now the cool thing with shallow is that we get a ton of methods that we can now use on this card component
for example.
Now because we render this we can use our good old friend expect to say expect
the shallow rendered car component and then we can say to equal to equal one and we'll just give it
a length property here.
And again we want to wrap this in our IT block expect to render
card component
and now we can just put this inside let's save.
And there you go.
We have one test passing and this shows that.
All right.
The car component when we render it it's going to actually render something to equal one.
I mean it's a silly test but that's nice.
We were able to just render nice and simple car component.
Let me remove the hello from here now.
What about these other two.
These other two things we're not going to go into too much because they have this specific use cases
like I said most of the time.
You want to use shallow and keep your tests nice and simple and contained but Mount does what's called
a full Dom rendering it's ideal for use cases where you have components that maybe interact with the
DOM API.
So for some reason maybe the car component uses dot query selector all or any of the Dom APIs that we
usually see or maybe the car component has some sort of a lifecycle method a react to lifecycle method
that you want to test such as component did mount.
Now one know with the Mount is that it requires a full Dom API to actually work and be available for
us for the Mount to happen.
And this means that it has to run an environment that at least looks like the browser environment.
And if you remember from our previous talk you might not always want to run your tests inside of a browser
because while it takes a bit of time.
So if you don't want to run your tests inside of her browser you might use something like a headless
browser or a J.S. Dom and it's recommended that with J as Dom is used with Mount.
Keep that in mind.
Mount unlike shallow rendering does a full render and actually mounts the component on a dump just like
reactor's which means that test can affect each other if they're all using the same dump.
But like I said it's very rare that you want to use mount because it can get complicated and you want
to keep your tests as clean and contained as possible.
Finally the last one is the render and the render function as the name suggests is used to render react
components but unlike to a real dump it's rendered to a static a Shamil so render return something very
similar to what's shallow and mount does.
However the differences that render uses a library called Cheerio underneath the hood think of it as
an end between shallow and mount it doesn't actually need a full DOM API but it does render any of its
code any of the card children underneath it.
If you need to test those.
All right.
So we have enzymes set up and we can test some of our components but there's still a little bit more
work we need to do for that one.
I'll see in the next one by.